# Theory

### Bobine

Bobine (French word for "coil" and "spool of thread") is a blockchain software written in TypeScript, it's a simple HTTP server that can run WebAssembly code in a neutral and provable way. WebAssembly code is organized through modules which all have an address, they can be uploaded and their function be called by anyone with a simple HTTP call. Each module has its own storage which is not accessible by other modules. Modules can call other modules and they can transfer various kinds of data. Every time a module is called it creates a transaction with inputs (parameters, storage reads) and outputs (result, logs, and storage writes), and since a transaction depends on the previous transaction, it forms a chain of compute.

### Consensus

The chain of compute can be verified (totally or partially) by anyone via the HTTP/WebSocket API, and any kind of fraud can be seen immediately. Since the chain of compute is publicly shared, there can be various mirrors or proxies that makes it resilient to censorship, and if the initial node is no longer operable (either it's down or it's deceptive), any other node can continue the chain at any time (or just fork it). 

There can be various "consensus" mechanisms to select the new operating node, but Bobine itself doesn't enforce no one, this means it's super easy to create your own chain for testing or private purposes, or bring your own consensus mechanism on top of any Bobine chain. This can also create a market-like competition on the best consensus mechanism without having to create a new blockchain for each competing mechanism.

### Finality

As there is only one node in charge of the transactions, they all have instant finality, once a transaction is approved it can't be reorganized without creating a fraud. There can be a little milliseconds delay for your client to verify that a transaction is valid, but once done it's final. This is the only "blockchain" with instant finality.

### Gas token

The gas token of every Bobine chain is SPARK, which can be generated by anyone via proof-of-work. Each time you want to send a transaction you have to include some proof of work called "effort", which is converted to some amount of SPARK as the maximum amount of gas your transaction can use. This means you don't need to hold any gas token prior to making transactions, and in fact, you don't even need to have an account.

### Accounts

There is no built-in concept of accounts. This is the only "blockchain" with the purest form of account abstraction. You can just call any module anonymously. Or you can bring a cryptographic signature to prove your identity. Batteries are included to facilitate signature verification for some schemes like Ed25519. But you can create any account module you want, and there are standards for making various account modules interoperable with unique account addresses.